<HTML>
<BODY>
<TITLE>THOT</TITLE>

<h2>Thot: a toolkit to train phrase-based models for statistical
machine translation.</h2>

<p> <i>Thot</i> is a toolkit to train phrase-based models for
statistical machine translation.  Thot allows to estimate the
phrase-based models described in (Och, 2002) and (Ortiz et
al. 2005). Thot also allows to obtain the best phrase alignment given a
phrase model as described in (Garc\'ia-Varea et al. 2005).  A
description of the toolkit can be found in (Ortiz et al. 2005).

<p> Thot is being developed by Daniel Ortiz at the <a
href="http://prhlt.iti.es/">Pattern Recognition and Human Language
Technology (PRHLT)</a> research group of the <a
href="http://www.upv.es/">Universidad Politécnica de Valencia (UPV)</a>
and the <a href="http://www.info-ab.uclm.es/simd/">Intelligent Systems
and Data Mining (SIMD)</a> research group of the <a
href="http://www.uclm.es/">Universidad de Castilla-La-Mancha (UCLM)</a>.
</p>

<h3>About Thot</h3>

<p> The toolkit includes the following functionality:
<ul>
<li> Operations between word alignment matrices (including Och's symmetrization);

<li> Estimation of phrase-based models from word alignment matrices via the relative frequencies;

<li> Experimental estimation that allows to obtain more complex models (including
     phrase length sub-models);

<li> Bilingual segmentation using phrase-based models;

<li> Basic C++ phrase-based models library;

<li> ...

</ul>

<p> <h3>In order to compile Thot you may need:</H3>
<ul>
<li> a recent version of the GNU compiler (2.96 or higher)
     that fully supports all features of STL.

<li> a recent version of assembler and linker which do not have restrictions
  with respect to the length of symbol names

</ul>

<P>It is known to compile on Linux and Windows (using cygwin) systems.  
As future work we plan to port the code to other platforms.
If any compilation problem occurs, please first 
try to get the newest compiler version. 
Patches to the code are very
welcome. Feel free to <a href="mailto:danulino@users.sourceforge.net">send me mail</a> asking for help.</b>

<p>It is released under the <a
href="http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html">GNU Public
License (GPL)</a>.

<p> <h3>Additional requirements:</H3>
Thot estimates phrase-based models from word alignment 
matrices like those generated by the publicly available <i>GIZA++</i> toolkit (<i>xxxx.A3.final</i> files). 
Therefore, you may need to download it for its use 
at the first step of the estimation (unless you have another way to generate 
the alignment matrices and to put them in the required format).

<h3>Citation:</h3>

You are welcome to use the code under the terms of the license for
research or commercial purposes, however please acknowledge its use
with a citation (click <a href="thot.pdf">here</a> to download the paper):

<P><LI>
  Daniel Ortiz-Mart\'inez, Ismael Garc\'ia-Varea, Francisco Casacuberta. 
<!--
  <A HREF="">"Thot: a toolkit to train phrase-based models for statistical
machine translation"</A>.
--!>
  "Thot: a toolkit to train phrase-based models for statistical
  machine translation"
  <I>Proc. of the Tenth Machine Translation Summit</I>,
  Phuket, Thailand, September 2005.

</LI></P>

<p> Here is a BiBTeX entry:</p>

<p><pre>
@InCollection{Ortiz2005,
  author =  {D.~Ortiz-Mart\'{\i}nez  and  I.~Garc\'{\i}a-Varea and F.~Casacuberta},
  title =  {Thot: a Toolkit To Train Phrase-based Statistical Translation Models},
  booktitle = {Tenth Machine Translation Summit},
  publisher = {AAMT},
  year = {2005},
  address = {Phuket, Thailand},
  month = {September},
}
</pre></p>

<h3>Download:</h3>

<a href="https://sourceforge.net/projects/thot">click here</a>

<h3>Literature:</h3>

<p><pre>
@PhDThesis{       och02:phd,
  author        = {Franz Joseph Och},
  title         = {Statistical Machine Translation: From Single-Word Models to
Alignment Templates},
  school        = {Computer Science Department, RWTH Aachen},
  year          = {2002},
  month         = {October},
  address       = {Germany},
  annote        = {machine translation, statistical machine translation,
                  grammar inference, translation modeling, decoding
                  algorithms, decoder, search, alignment, alignment models,
                  word-based alignment, structure-based alignment}
}
</pre></p>

<p><pre>
@InCollection{Ortiz2005,
  author =  {D.~Ortiz-Mart\'{\i}nez  and  I.~Garc\'{\i}a-Varea and F.~Casacuberta},
  title =  {Thot: a Toolkit To Train Phrase-based Statistical Translation Models},
  booktitle = {Tenth Machine Translation Summit},
  publisher = {AAMT},
  year = {2005},
  address = {Phuket, Thailand},
  month = {September},
}
</pre></p>

<p><pre>
@InCollection{GarciaVarea2005,
  author =       {I. Garc\'{\i}a-Varea and  D. Ortiz and  F. Nevado and 
                  P.A. Gómez and  F. Casacuberta},
  title =        {Automatic segmentation of bilingual corpora: A comparison of
                  different techniques},
  booktitle =    {Iberian Conference on Pattern Recognition and Image 
                  Analysis},
  year =         {2005},
  address =      {Estoril (Portugal)},
  month =        {June},
  pages =        {614--621},
  series =       {Lecture Notes in Computer Science},
  publisher =    {Springer-Verlag},
  volume = {3523},
}
</pre></p>

<h3>Acknowledgements</h3>
This work has been partially supported by the
Spanish project TIC2003-08681-C02-02, the Agencia Valenciana de
Ciencia y Tecnolog\'ia under contract GRUPOS03/031, the 
Generalitat Valenciana, and the project HERMES (Vicerrectorado de Investigaci\'on - UCLM-05)
<hr>
Last updated: 3 June 2006,
<i><a href="mailto:danulino@users.sourceforge.net">danulino@users.sourceforge.net</a></i>

</BODY>
</HTML>
